Add RAG and Backtesting tutorials (#252)
langchain-ai/langsmith-docs: versioned_docs/version-2.0/tutorials/rag.mdx

> ```python

Reviewer: Need to add sidebar_position to both of these files depending on the position you want it to be in (see the other files in this folder for examples)

> ```python

Reviewer: Also need to rename this file to "RAG.mdx" (capitalized) - otherwise it shows up incorrectly as all lower-cased in the sidebar

%capture --no-stderr
! pip install langsmith langchain-community langchain chromadb tiktoken openai langchainhub

> ```

Reviewer: Why is this at the top of the page? Probably want to remove this?

# Use Case Tutorial: RAG

We will walk through the evaluation workflow for RAG (retrieval augmented generation).

## Overview

We will discuss each piece of the workflow below.

> ![rag_overview.png](./static/rag_overview.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![RAG overview](./static/rag_overview.png)
```

## Dataset

> Here is a dataset of [LCEL (LangChain Expression Language)](https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/expression_language/) related questions that we will use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be using a dataset of [LCEL (LangChain Expression Language)](https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/expression_language/) related questions.
```

This dataset was created using csv upload in the LangSmith UI:

https://smith.langchain.com/public/65830565-81b2-4581-859f-c4aabaadf1cc/d

Here, we ensure that API keys for OpenAI as well as LangSmith are set.

```python
import getpass
import os

def _set_env(var: str):
    if not os.environ.get(var):
        os.environ[var] = getpass.getpass(f"{var}: ")

_set_env("OPENAI_API_KEY")
os.environ["LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2"] = "true"
os.environ["LANGCHAIN_ENDPOINT"] = "https://api.smith.langchain.com"
_set_env("LANGCHAIN_API_KEY")
```

```python
### Dataset name
dataset_name = "LCEL-QA"
```

## Task

> Here is a chain that will perform RAG on [LCEL (LangChain Expression Language)](https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/expression_language/) docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a chain that will perform RAG on [LCEL (LangChain Expression Language)](https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/expression_language/) docs.
```

        # Wrapping the client instruments the LLM
        self._client = wrap_openai(openai.Client())
        self._model = model

    @traceable()
    def retrieve_docs(self, question):
        return self._retriever.invoke(question)

    @traceable()
    def invoke_llm(self, question, docs):
        response = self._client.chat.completions.create(
            model=self._model,
            messages=[
                {
                    "role": "system",
                    "content": "You are a helpful AI code assistant with expertise in LCEL."
                    " Use the following docs to produce a concise code solution to the user question.\n\n"
                    f"## Docs\n\n{docs}",
                },
                {"role": "user", "content": question},
            ],
        )

        # Evaluators will expect "answer" and "contexts"
        return {
            "answer": response.choices[0].message.content,
            "contexts": [str(doc) for doc in docs],
        }

    @traceable()
    def get_answer(self, question: str):
        docs = self.retrieve_docs(question)
        return self.invoke_llm(question, docs)

rag_bot = RagBot(retriever)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample call and response to our chain:
```

```python
response = rag_bot.get_answer("How to build a RAG chain in LCEL?")
response["answer"][:150]
```

    'Building a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) chain in LangChain Expression Language (LCEL) allows you to leverage the power of document retrieval t'

> Define a function that will:

Reviewer: Can you add one sentence explaining why we need this? Was a bit confusing to me

    """Use this for answer evaluation"""
    response = rag_bot.get_answer(example["input_question"])
    return {"answer": response["answer"]}

def predict_rag_answer_with_context(example: dict):
    """Use this for evaluation of retrieved documents and hallucinations"""
    response = rag_bot.get_answer(example["input_question"])
    return {"answer": response["answer"], "contexts": response["contexts"]}
```

## Evaluator

There are at least 4 types of RAG eval that users are typically interested in.

1. **Response vs reference answer**

- `Goal`: Measure "_how similar/correct is the RAG chain answer, relative to a ground-truth answer_"
- `Mode`: Uses ground truth (reference) answer supplied through a dataset
- `Judge`: Use LLM-as-judge to assess answer correctness.

2. **Response vs input**

- `Goal`: Measure "_how well does the generated response address the initial user input_"
- `Mode`: Reference-free, because it will compare the answer to the input question
- `Judge`: Use LLM-as-judge to assess answer relevance, helpfulness, etc.

3. **Response vs retrieved docs**

- `Goal`: Measure "_to what extent does the generated response agree with the retrieved context_"

> - `Mode`: Reference-free, because it will compare the answer to the retrieved context

Reviewer: Would love a small clarification here about why "retrieved context" doesn't count as a "reference"

- `Judge`: Use LLM-as-judge to assess faithfulness, hallucinations, etc.

4. **Retrieved docs vs input**

- `Goal`: Measure "_how good are my retrieved results for this query_"
- `Mode`: Reference-free, because it will compare the question to the retrieved context
- `Judge`: Use LLM-as-judge to assess relevance

> ![](./static/rag_eval_overview.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![RAG eval overview](./static/rag_eval_overview.png)
```

### **Response vs reference answer**

Here is an example prompt that we can use:

https://smith.langchain.com/hub/langchain-ai/rag-answer-vs-reference

Here is the information flow:

> ![answer_eval_flow.png](./static/answer_eval_flow.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Answer eval flow](./static/answer_eval_flow.png)
```

    # Structured prompt
    answer_grader = grade_prompt_answer_accuracy | llm

    # Run evaluator
    score = answer_grader.invoke({"question": input_question,
                                  "correct_answer": reference,
                                  "student_answer": prediction})
    score = score["Score"]

    return {"key": "answer_v_reference_score", "score": score}
```

Now, we kick off evaluation:

- `predict_rag_answer`: Takes an `example` from our eval set, extracts the question, passes to our RAG chain
- `answer_evaluator`: Passes RAG chain answer, question, and ground truth answer to an evaluator

```python
from langsmith.evaluation import evaluate

experiment_results = evaluate(
    predict_rag_answer,
    data=dataset_name,
    evaluators=[answer_evaluator],
    experiment_prefix="rag-answer-v-reference",
    metadata={"version": "LCEL context, gpt-4-0125-preview"},
)
```

    View the evaluation results for experiment: 'rag-answer-v-reference-552234e6' at:
    https://smith.langchain.com/o/ebbaf2eb-769b-4505-aca2-d11de10372a4/datasets/5f34de91-78ab-4ae2-83f3-8f7f93afc998/compare?selectedSessions=03e51c9a-9aeb-4cfe-8f8c-ede797940b9e

>     0it [00:00, ?it/s]

Reviewer: Remove

    """
    A simple evaluator for RAG answer helpfulness
    """

    # Get question, ground truth answer, RAG chain answer
    input_question = example.inputs["input_question"]
    prediction = run.outputs["answer"]

    # LLM grader
    llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4-turbo", temperature=0)

    # Structured prompt
    answer_grader = grade_prompt_answer_helpfulness | llm

    # Run evaluator
    score = answer_grader.invoke({"question": input_question,
                                  "student_answer": prediction})
    score = score["Score"]

    return {"key": "answer_helpfulness_score", "score": score}
```

```python
experiment_results = evaluate(
    predict_rag_answer,
    data=dataset_name,
    evaluators=[answer_helpfulness_evaluator],
    experiment_prefix="rag-answer-helpfulness",
    metadata={"version": "LCEL context, gpt-4-0125-preview"},
)
```

    View the evaluation results for experiment: 'rag-answer-helpfulness-e64d4893' at:
    https://smith.langchain.com/o/ebbaf2eb-769b-4505-aca2-d11de10372a4/datasets/5f34de91-78ab-4ae2-83f3-8f7f93afc998/compare?selectedSessions=60ee674a-fb59-4c68-86fe-148355fc659e

    0it [00:00, ?it/s]

> 

Reviewer: remove

### **Response vs retrieved docs**

Here is an example prompt that we can use:

https://smith.langchain.com/hub/langchain-ai/rag-answer-hallucination

Here is the information flow:

> ![answer_hallucination_flow.png](./static/answer_hallucination_flow.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Answer Hallucination Flow](./static/answer_hallucination_flow.png)
```

    """
    A simple evaluator for generation hallucination
    """

    # RAG inputs
    input_question = example.inputs["input_question"]
    contexts = run.outputs["contexts"]

    # RAG answer
    prediction = run.outputs["answer"]

    # LLM grader
    llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4-turbo", temperature=0)

    # Structured prompt
    answer_grader = grade_prompt_hallucinations | llm

    # Get score
    score = answer_grader.invoke({"documents": contexts,
                                  "student_answer": prediction})
    score = score["Score"]

    return {"key": "answer_hallucination", "score": score}
```

```python
experiment_results = evaluate(
    predict_rag_answer_with_context,
    data=dataset_name,
    evaluators=[answer_hallucination_evaluator],
    experiment_prefix="rag-answer-hallucination",
    metadata={"version": "LCEL context, gpt-4-0125-preview"},
)
```

    View the evaluation results for experiment: 'rag-answer-hallucination-0bcf36cb' at:
    https://smith.langchain.com/o/ebbaf2eb-769b-4505-aca2-d11de10372a4/datasets/5f34de91-78ab-4ae2-83f3-8f7f93afc998/compare?selectedSessions=db391b03-d4b2-4c57-9e1c-8ef33389c60d

>     0it [00:00, ?it/s]

Reviewer: Remove this: link won't work

### **Retrieved docs vs input**

Here is an example prompt that we can use:

https://smith.langchain.com/hub/langchain-ai/rag-document-relevance

Here is the information flow:

> ![document_relevance_flow.png](./static/document_relevance_flow.png)

Reviewer: To me these diagrams (specifically the information flow ones) are confusing and I can't really grok out what they mean

def docs_relevance_evaluator(run, example) -> dict:
    """
    A simple evaluator for document relevance
    """

    # RAG inputs
    input_question = example.inputs["input_question"]
    contexts = run.outputs["contexts"]

    # LLM grader
    llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4-turbo", temperature=0)

    # Structured prompt
    answer_grader = grade_prompt_doc_relevance | llm

    # Get score
    score = answer_grader.invoke({"question":input_question,
                                  "documents":contexts})
    score = score["Score"]

    return {"key": "document_relevance", "score": score}
```

```python
experiment_results = evaluate(
    predict_rag_answer_with_context,
    data=dataset_name,
    evaluators=[docs_relevance_evaluator],
    experiment_prefix="rag-doc-relevance",
    metadata={"version": "LCEL context, gpt-4-0125-preview"},
)
```

    View the evaluation results for experiment: 'rag-doc-relevance-f1df6f71' at:
    https://smith.langchain.com/o/ebbaf2eb-769b-4505-aca2-d11de10372a4/datasets/5f34de91-78ab-4ae2-83f3-8f7f93afc998/compare?selectedSessions=8cbe59eb-0e2d-4c1a-9861-fec4fc504402

>     0it [00:00, ?it/s]

Reviewer: Again, I would remove these

    )
    retrieve_run = next(
        run for run in rag_pipeline_run.child_runs if run.name == "retrieve_docs"
    )
    contexts = "\n\n".join(doc.page_content for doc in retrieve_run.outputs["output"])

    # RAG output
    prediction = rag_pipeline_run.outputs["answer"]

    # LLM grader
    llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4-turbo", temperature=0)

    # Structured prompt
    answer_grader = grade_prompt_hallucinations | llm

    # Get score
    score = answer_grader.invoke({"documents": contexts,
                                  "student_answer": prediction})
    score = score["Score"]

    return {"key": "answer_hallucination", "score": score}

experiment_results = evaluate(
    predict_rag_answer,
    data=dataset_name,
    evaluators=[document_relevance_grader, answer_hallucination_grader],
    metadata={"version": "LCEL context, gpt-4-0125-preview"},
)
```

    View the evaluation results for experiment: 'passionate-stomach-89' at:
    https://smith.langchain.com/o/ebbaf2eb-769b-4505-aca2-d11de10372a4/datasets/5f34de91-78ab-4ae2-83f3-8f7f93afc998/compare?selectedSessions=72d9c039-84ff-468a-a537-e9a33f8b7e92

>     0it [00:00, ?it/s]

Reviewer: rm

## Online Evaluation

Three of our evaluators do not require a `reference` (ground truth) answer:

- **Response vs input**
- **Response vs retrieved docs**
- **Retrieved docs vs input**

These simply perform a comparison between run input (question), intermediate steps (documents), and outputs (answer).

This allows us to use them as online evaluators.

```python
# Project
os.environ["LANGCHAIN_PROJECT"] = "RAG_online_evaluation"
```

```python
result = rag_bot.get_answer("How do I create a RAG chain?")
```

```python
result = rag_bot.get_answer("How can I use a runnable lambda?")

> ```

Reviewer: To me this section doesn't really make sense - what does the code mean? I think it's good enough to just remove the code, as the text already seems to make sense without it?
